>> Mike North: Visual Studio Code
is an open source project, and
although the binaries are proprietary,
the code base is completely open, right?
You can look on GitHub
at Microsoft/vscode, and
you can see exactly what's going on here.
A lot of the interesting stuff
is sort of it exists in official
plugins of sorts that are brought into
the base Visual Studio Code experience.
But it's really nice to see some of
the work that Microsoft is doing
to open up their efforts around this.
One of the benefits we're going to enjoy
as we start to dive deeper into this
project is the close collaboration that's
happened between the VS Code team,
the Microsoft Edge team,
the Visual Studio team.
And by that we mean the sort of
heavier IDE-like experience.
And then finally, the TypeScript team.
So all of these are sort of
developer-oriented teams that are trying
to build great tools for
us to build apps with.
And you start to see that there's
a lot of good symbiosis going on here,
I guess is the right word, or
synergy to use a business buzzword.
In particular,
we see it like TypeScript and VS Code,
they seem to be coordinating really well.
>> Mike North: So
one of the benefits of having started
this project only a couple of years
ago is they get to learn from other
past lessons, other attempts that didn't
sort of take off in the JavaScript
community in terms of providing tools.
Heavier IDEs are definitely
not the way to go, right?
There are people that use WebStorm, and
are productive with it, and enjoy it.
But oftentimes they will find that their
whole team does not want to use WebStorm.
Or they're an outlier,
a successful outlier and no judgment here.
If that works for you that's great.
But we wanna empower a broad
swath of the developer community.
And in particular when I started using
these heavier IDEs, it's like if I open up
a JavaScript project in something like
IntelliJ, I find it's about a two-week
process of as I hit walls disabling
pieces of functionality, right?
Telling it, no, I do not want you to watch
Node modules and to try to index all of
those dependencies that's potentially
thousands of files there.
Just focus on the code that I'm writing
until you end up having to sort of beat it
into submission.
Once you get it there,
it can be nice, but it is a hurdle.
It is sort of pain that users have
to go through before they can
actually get to where they
feel like they can move
fluidly.
>> Mike North: So
code does not impose a lot of opinions on
users, and I'm talking about Vim here.
That is an example of something that
imposes opinions on users where you
have to learn all of the magic
keybinding incantations.
And I wish that my my brain did
not reject Vim in the way that
it does cuz I've made significant efforts
to try to become proficient with that.
Plenty of developers swear by it and claim
that they can move faster and edit code.
And they look like wizards when
they're selecting five lines and
editing them all simultaneously,
but you have to learn all of that.
You have to sort pick
that productivity hit as
your transition into Vim
from something else.
One of the great things about
code is that you can install
a key mapping from whatever editor
you are already familiar with.
And you should be able to basically
keep using the same keystrokes,
keep practicing your same familiar habits,
and
the editor will do what
you expect it to do.
So you get to bring your
keybindings with you.
And I love to see that we favor,
code teams to favor open standards
over the proprietary format.
So these files like .jsconfig or
.editorconfig,
they actually predate Visual Studio, but
they work equally well in a Sublime or
in an Atom.
Sometimes you need a plugin to find
something that will look at these files
and to incorporate them into
your development experience.
But it's good that the existing
standards are being adopted rather than
some special magic XML file that like
it's just for this particular editor.
This means that we don't have to
necessarily, there is value in checking
these files into a project and
sharing them amongst the team compared to
the question of whether we should have
the Eclipse project, the IntelliJ project,
the NetBeans project, all as files
that are checked in, all maintained.
Each of them has a different way
of maintaining their tasks and
things like that.
So it is good to adopt what already
exists rather than to find something new.